I am so happy to get to be with you all, and it's pretty cool to see some of the College Republicans sitting down here where we met last time. I met some of you in the lobby, in addition to some of the great Independents and Libertarians who were out there too. They are awesome, and then last night meeting some of our proud, wonderful members of the military. I love you guys; you're my heroes. I love you cause I love freedom, and like I always say, if you love your freedom, thank a Vet. We thank you guys.
It's really, really good to be here today. I love coming back here because there are always so many young people, or, as you're know by the folks across the river, ObamaCare suckers. Yep, you are the ones, right? You're the ones who pay the bills in our brave new world. They forgot that, didn't they, when they said that you were the change that you were waiting for. Turns out, you have the change that they're waiting for. You have the change, you have the fives, you have the tens, and twenties.
Well, it is great to be back here, because this is the place, CPAC is known as the place, where the future conservatism always starts; whether it was Ronald Reagan back in '75 or Dr․ Ben Carson, just like last year, this is where it starts, and it's because of you and your energy, your commitment to the greatest, the greatest country on earth, the thing that makes her exceptional. It's because of you. So I look at you and I feel good about America.
Now, when we were here last year, there was some reeling going on because of the election. Our fellow Americans had decided, evidently, to double-down on hopey-changey, and the Sages of the Beltway and their sock puppets at MSLSD, hat tip Mark Levin—they said that we had to give up on our principles, because they said, the train of history was roaring to the left so jump onboard or get left behind; but then, something happened, that 'hope and change' went from a catchy campaign slogan to a reality, and along the way, 'hope and change,' 'yes we can,' it became 'no you can't, nooooo, you can't log on to the website, nooooo you can't keep your health care, nooooo you can't make a phone call without Michelle Obama knowing this is the third time this week you've dialed Pizza Hut delivery.
Yes, something did happen. We became a wiser Republican a year ago. Americans know now what the giants of our movement have always told us, people like Freidman and Reagan and Margaret Thatcher—they said, there ain't no such thing as a free lunch. There is no free birth control. There's no free phone. There's no free doctor visits. There's no free Fritos, there's no free ride. Someone pays. Someone always pays, and if you don't know who that someone is, it's probably you. Americans found that out this year, and hopefully those socially-engineering politicos learned something as well. Americans aren't quite as obedient as they thought we were.
See, they set up a lot of hoops, making us pay for insurance that we don't want, don't need, telling us, ah, nothing to see in Benghazi, move along, move along, nor at the IRS, nothing amiss, not even a smidgen—making us bear the brunt of that dopey wobbling on the world stage, but we didn't jump through those hoops the way that we were supposed to. It's like, y'all went rogue! I thank you!
Speaking of y'all, Texas, thank you, thank you Texas, because liberty needs a Congress on Cruz Control.
Yes, last year something did happen; the awakening did begin and Senator Ted Cruz helped keep them awake. His filibuster, it worked in waking people up to the folly of a government take-over of one-sixth of our economy. He forced debate. He told his colleagues, it was time, time to stand-up, time to use the tools of the Constitution, the power of the purse to fulfill their campaign promises and to stop ObamaCare, but our Army balked. We hoped that they were just reloading, but instead, they retreated, and worse, worse, they joined the lap dogs in the lame stream to trash the foot soldiers who had fought for America.
Ted Cruz, he had a clever way of doing it, too. Dr․ Seuss, who'd a thunk? Who'd a thunk? Yeah, good idea, maybe I'll just ad lib something, yeah, right sure. But there he was reading it on the floor of the Senate, through air waves, he was telling his kids, I'm thinking of you, thinking of all our kids. I have five kids. I have five kids so reading Green Eggs and Ham over all those years, to each one, you know, you totally have it memorized by, especially by the time Trig was born, so I had to spice it up a bit, and little Trig, lucky little fella, his bedtime story, now it goes something like this:
I do not like this Uncle Sam. I do not like his health care scam. I do not like these dirty crooks or how they lie and cook the books. I do not like when Congress steals. I do not like their crony deals. I do not like this spying man. I do not like 'Oh yes we can.' I do not like this spending spree; we're smart, we know there's nothing free. I do not like reporter's smug replies when I complain about their lies. I do not like this kind of hope, and we wont' take it nope, nope, nope.
Hat tip the internet. I saw a couple of lines on the internet on that, and I winged the other ones.
Friends, Ted Cruz and Mike Lee and Paul and Gowdy and Gosar and Gohmert, etc., we've got some good guys in there, good guys, they carry the Common Sense gene. They know that we are a nation with a government, not the other way around. They are constitutionalists and they were sent to D․C․ to fight the battle there for us, so it's time, it's time we send them reinforcements.
They need reinforcements, because you see, families are hurting today, hard workers, hard-working families. They're caught between the capitalism that benefits the politically-connected and the income redistribution that benefits the politically-favored.
But still, I feel good about America because Conservatives haven't forgotten the American beyond the ruling classes, wealthy D․C․ suburbs. I'm talking about the places where most of the people who do the working and the serving and the building and the taxpaying live. That's where you'll find amazing America.
We are staying true to our principles—real solutions to real problems, and you got to hear some of those solutions the last couple of days. You're not just sitting back, just hanging, hanging with the 'Choom Gang, I hope you're not, just letting D․C․ control the people and bankrupt our country in order to fundamentally transform it.
That's why I feel good, because you're not just putting up with this. We do have some great pro-freedom, free market, pro-family that are clingers and wingers, aka great leaders, and they're proposing ways to actually help the middle class and allow equal opportunity to work, and through self initiative, everyone be lifted and succeed, so I feel good.
I hear from you and I see you. I just feel that we know we've got each other's backs and I feel that you know this is the stirring of the Great Awakening. I do believe that the eyes of America are open, unfortunately though, some would want you to just hit the snooze button and roll back over, like, 'hush America, go back to sleep little lambs. Go back to sleep, close those eyes.' Some of these folks are in the establishment, and they are a different breed of cats. They say that the smartest thing that we can do right now is just lay low, stay out-of-the-way while ObamaCare crashes and burns on its own and the economy sputters to a halt—forget all that solvency and insolvency stuff, just lay low, and as, while internationally, we so tick-off our allies and we lead a world that is looking for that shining city on a hill again, we lead them from behind? The result is some very, very, very bad dudes gain ground. This, instead of putting the fear of God in our enemies—proving peace through strength, and that is only brought to you courtesy of the red, white and blue. That's only what the United States military can do.
But some GOP experts, they subscribe to the old saying, you know, don't interrupt while they're in the process of destroying themselves. Maybe true, but you do interrupt when they are in the process of destroying your country. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to stop 'em 2014. We're going to stop them, and by the way, complacent ones who had just shined the boot that would stop on our necks, working the status agenda of Obama, this applies to you too in the 2016 presidential race. Speaking of…I should have, I didn't get to run this morning, I was so busy man, and didn't get to run.
But speaking of those who just carry the water, man, I feel sorry for some of those Cabinet members, frankly—take Secretary of State John Kerry. You say "take him, take him?" No really, I feel sorry because it's just draining on him. He does not look happy. He has sent a message that this president is dazed and confused. Poor guy, you can just see it on him. Bless his heart, but no need to ask him any more why the long face. Now we know.
Those policies that the Cabinet have to explain and justify, how do you convey to Putin the threat that sounds like 'Vladimir, don't mess around, or you're going to feel my flexibility, cause I got a phone and I got a pen and, um, I can dial real fast and poke you with my pen. Pinky promise.'
No, this is the guy who promised to provide for the sick, but there are more uninsured today than when Obama began this. He promised jobs for the jobless but fewer people work today than since the peanut farmer was our president, and the average family is bringing in $4,000 dollars less today than when Obama started all this. He promised us a safe peaceful world, promised he's got al-Qaeda on the run, yeah, perhaps towards us. And safer? He would gut our arsenal, he allows others, enemies, to enrich theirs. Man, that's just like a liberal on gun control. Mr․ President, the only thing that stops a bad guy with a nuke is a good guy with a nuke.
He promised to heal the planet and stop the raise of the oceans, but the planet's not listening to Dr․ Obama.
The only thing rising in his la-la land is the Russian empire. I'm sorry, I'm probably being too hard on the president, after all, who could have seen this coming?
The GOP establishment, again, just going along to get along. You need another 'come to Jesus meetin.' It's time, and the bottom line is today. The Democrat's agenda is a lost cause. President Obama, though, he is nothing if not poll-tested, so even he knows that the deep issue of our time is that pressing stagnation facing the middle class. Those good working class families, just can't get ahead and that's why he baits the GOP establishment into a kind of tit-for-tat, things to distract, and then they pander, and in the White House they do such damage, but their agenda is failure and fiasco on steroids.
America is counting on the GOP to get it right, and that's why the establishment can't blow it. No Republican gets elected promising higher taxes, wasteful spending, increased debt, bigger government, rewarding lawbreakers, amnesty—so why are they voting for these things now, and why reward them with your vote?
GOP Beltway Boys, yeah, GOP Beltway Boys, you know that 2010 victory that swept you into power? You didn't build that, the TEA Party did, so dance with the one that brought ya. You want another sweep, grab a broom and join us at the party.
In this awakening, eyes are open, we're stronger now, we're wiser now, and God knows, we are hungry and there aren't enough low-information voters in the country to save the other side this time, if we don't retreat. And when we meet next, Lord willing, Harry Reid—either he will be the Senate minority leader or a blackjack dealer in Vegas, where everything stays in Vegas.
Another reason to feel good about our future and our movement, because we are pushing back against what some would call the 'perpetual panties-in-a-wad' people. You know them, these people are quick with quote about the latest victimized identity group. They are professionals at taking offense. It's what they do, and their media minions are even quicker, seeking them out and publicizing their manufactured outrage. The play is always the same, someone on the right says something that isn't politically correct, or it can be distorted not to sound politically correct, and it's 'perpetually wadded-up people' that they get to work and they claim to want tolerance, open debate and their goal really is the complete opposite. Their goal is to shut-up anyone who doesn't toe their line. What ever happened—you see or hear something, that kind of bugged you—buck up or stay in the truck? That's how we grew up.
Remember when their skirts got all tangled-up over their heads when, recently, our buddy from Duck Dynasty, Phil—remember this? Here's Phil, he's talking about faith with a reporter from GQ, first mistake, but in between saying he loves humanity, he loves sinners, and leave it to God to judge. Well, he quoted the Bible and he got colorful with expressing his opinion, so what did that brilliant TV network do? They fired him. They canned the devout Christian for expressing his devout Christian views on a television show about his devout Christian family. Yeah, there's nothing wrong, nothing out of line on cable TV, it's those executives who get to school America on standards.
In another time though, that might have been it. Phil would have stayed fired, but not now, not this time, people all over America knew. It wasn't just wingers and clingers, people all over America knew that Phil's right to express himself, that fight that he had to undertake, well, that was all about our right to express ourselves. His fight was our fight and we pushed back and we won. And now everyone is happy, happy, happy.
You know, these are the same 'fainting couch liberals,' whining that we disrespect women. Bull. Hey, Democrats, it is your leaders who are demeaning to women. Liberals seem to think that the women of America are just cheap dates, you know, feed 'em a few lines about that free birth control, throw in a few scary quotes on the War on Women, then they will be yours. Don't bother their pretty little heads with tax policy or debilitating debt or energy independence. Imagine if they treated the men like that? A quick word with the sisters here—guys just give us a minute, go play some racing game on your cell phone or something for a second, okay, while I talk to the ladies.
Girls, we know better than to fall for that victimization-line from the president and his party. I know you know better, but if you have a friend or a sister or a roommate, falling for that hooey, you gotta set 'em straight. Ask them, who's really stereotyping you? Is it the people who believe you are a thinking, achieving, striving strong individual or those who put you in a box and they define you still by body parts. Enticing girls to think they need these guys to grow government to take care of them.
Women, don't let them use you unless you choose to be their political pawn or just their piece of accessory on their arm. Honey, that's not liberation, that's subjugation and this sisterhood fights against that. We fight the mastery the big government would want over us, so who are the real women liberators? Hey, you can join us, be legit, because, come on libs, can you really sing, 'I am woman hear me….' No, cause donkeys just bray, only Mamma Grizzlies say 'hear me roar.'
Let the women of America know our platform, our values, our independence, our work ethics. It's family, faith and freedom. Be bold in making our case. We're the heirs of Thatcher and Stanton and Anthony so stop apologizing, and start evangelizing and infiltrating, and influencing pop culture. If the boys aren't up for the challenge, the girls are happy to lead the charge. This sisterhood so believes in respect, the powerful and purposeful potential of every woman so much so that we're the party with the plank that protects even our littlest sisters in the womb.
Friends, last year I stood here and I declared that we're not here to rebrand a party, we're here to rebuild a country and what I meant was, we shouldn't be in the business of using just the right poll-tested phraseology or pander to the right special interests. We're in the business of digging ourselves out of debt, and restoring competitiveness, educating our children, and liberating our potential.
Truth be told, coming from a very diverse family and having a diverse career and being independent, I don't care what you call yourself or how you rebrand a party. If you stand for those right things, I stand with you, and to stand here is to stand on the shoulder's of giants.
The men and women who have come before, at podiums like this, in front of patriots like you—you're the key—you're what matters in all of this. But they, coming before, devoting their lives to preserving and protecting what is best in us—some were veterans, some were politicians, some housewives, speaking to soldiers, students and teachers, firemen, fishermen, farmers, of every race, color and creed—all were parts of a remarkable movement of freedom and human flourishing and for all they have given us, for all they have achieved, such a great price they paid—in their honor, work hard and feel good, knowing that the best is yet to come.
This is a great awakening. The Age of Obama is almost over—the end of an error. He is the lamest of lame ducks, so expand our ranks. We can do this. Expand our ranks to save our country, because our sensible and aperitiv mission for small government and big freedom is big enough for every American who loves liberty and trusts the individual. I know this because we know America, not from the top down but from the heart looking out.
Our message resonates. We believe in the promise of America, and that message does resonate and it has since the band of brothers dumped tea in the Boston harbor. We have to go be that band of brothers and sisters again, not to fundamentally change America but to save it and to fundamentally restore the promise of America. It is because of you, it's We the People, because of you that I have never been more optimistic about the future of our one nation, under God, so stand up and stiffen your spine, you've got to fight for it, the best is yet to come. God bless you Conservatives. God bless America.