When we — when we talk about increasing — when we talk about increasing the retirement age, there is a good proposal on the table, a good idea to look at age 55 that all of this does have to be looked at. But we need to quit assuming that government can, better than we as individuals, plan our retirement for us than our security they're stating — and we need to — Everything — everything is going to have to change for those who are enrolled in the program now and will be enrolled in the program now. But we do not change the pension benefit — of those who are receiving it now and that what's people care —
And I really apologize that up here in Alaska we have the four second delay. So it's — it's not an easy exchange — to try to — to try to get my point across to you if you interrupt. Everything is going to have to change. Look, how can Michael Moore, for instance, as — as you had said in your introduction, tell Americans that we're not going broke? We take in $2.2 trillion a year and yet we're paying out $3.5 trillion a year. What's in the water there in Hollywood and in DC for people to not want to understand or believe — or trust what the reality is —
They're not truthful so we have to be truthful. And we have to deal with the reality — and reality is we are going bankrupt and the only way that we're going to get out of the problem that we face is to cut, is to cut budgets — is to reform entitlements, and then to start a pro-growth agenda that's based on cutting taxes and incentivizing production and tapping our energy sources and again stop assuming that government can plan our economy for us.
There will — and there will always — There is a need — there is a need for a safety net for those who are disadvantaged and in some of the rural communities in Alaska where there's 80 percent unemployment, there is a disadvantage and there needs to be a safety net. But you know why there is a disadvantage here in Alaska? Because the federal government has locked up our lands and not allowed us to tap into energy sources so that we can create more jobs. Less than one percent of Alaskan land is in the private sector hands. Now, we asked the federal government and I've sued the federal government for allowance to be able to develop more so that people aren't of this entitlement mentality where they believe that the only way that they can get out of a disadvantaged stage is to have government provide for them. If we had a robust economy here and all across the country, then we wouldn't have to be looking at these insolvent entitlement programs that yes, when — when we start pulling the plug on some of them, there is going to be a shared burden across our country.